---
title: ROLLS-ROYCE CONDUCTS ITS FIRST 100% SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL TESTS
date: 2021-02-07T19:12:28.173Z
permalink: esgegs
eleventyNavigation:
  order: 100
  key: sgsdg
---

As climate change looms over us, both countries and firms are seeking
to move to more sustainable fuels in order to reach net-zero carbon
emissions. Boeing, for instance, aims to use 100% sustainable fuels on
all planes by 2030. Now, Rolls-Royce has just conducted their first
tests of a 100% Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in a business jet
engine.

The tests were done on the firm's latest business aviation engine in
development, the Pearl 700, in Dahlewitz, Germany. The Pearl 700
combines the Advance2 engine core, "the most efficient core available
across the business aviation sector," with a brand-new low-pressure
system. This combination leads to an 8% increase in take-off thrust
at 18,250lb compared to the BR725's 17,000lb. The engine also offers
5% higher efficiency.

The new tests were conducted just mere weeks after an unblended SAF
was successfully used for the first time in engine ground tests on a
Trent 1000 engine in Derby, UK. Now, the firm is looking into moving
this type of fuel towards certification. Currently, SAF is only
certified for blends of up to 50% with conventional jet fuel.

â€œSustainable aviation fuels have the potential to significantly
reduce the carbon emissions of our engines and combining this
potential with the extraordinary performance of our Pearl engine
family brings us another important step closer to enabling our
customers to achieve net-zero carbon emissions," said Dr. Joerg Au,
Chief Engineer of Business Aviation and Engineering Director of
Rolls-Royce Deutschland.

The SAF used in the tests may reduce net CO2 lifecycle emissions by
more than 75% compared to conventional jet fuel. The novel fuel was
produced by fuel specialist World Energy in Paramount, California,
sourced by Shell Aviation and delivered by SkyNRG. The tests could
pave the way for bigger planes with bigger engines to also seek more
sustainable methods of fueling. Wouldn't that be nice now?